# Sensitivity and mental illness
**Heads up:** I run through a large list of things, mostly vices, that mentally ill people think about. They're just mentions, but if that's a problem for you then you should skip this page.

**Work in progress:** I think this captures most of it, but it's possible I can say it better. Let me know what you think.

I've mentioned to people around me that I have bipolar disorder, and sometimes they stop referring to me as crazy, probably because it's viewed as insensitive or something. That's unfortunate and counterfactual. I am [very](https://github.com/spencertipping/perl-objects) [obviously](https://github.com/spencertipping/canard/blob/circular/bin/canard.md) [willing](https://github.com/spencertipping/catastrophe) to create [absurd](https://github.com/spencertipping/browserpower) [and pointless](https://github.com/spencertipping/bash-lambda) [projects](https://github.com/spencertipping/www/blob/master/datacenter.md) with [little regard for practicality or efficiency](https://github.com/spencertipping/www/blob/master/gps.md), and [sometimes with ridiculous consequences](https://github.com/spencertipping/www/blob/master/soggy-backplane.md). "Insane" isn't a pejorative, it's a compliment: I take more risks than average and find ways to make it work out. I'm proud of that quality and consciously cultivate it because it's how I get out of my comfort zone and learn new things.

Sensitivity advocates are right that there's a line, but I think it's easy to misunderstand where and why it exists. For me, the line is to say something like "well you have a mental illness, therefore your reasoning is unsound"; that is, depriving me of the normal due process we give people and their viewpoints simply on the grounds that I'm neuroatypical. (The obvious caveat being that it's fine to say I can't make assertions about how normal people would see _x_ issue without sources, because I'm not normal myself. That's just common sense.)

On the flip side, there are a bunch of things that offend normal people that don't bother me (and I'm guessing other bipolar folks) at all. Head over to the [bipolar forum on reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/bipolar/) for some examples. Gallows humor, drug abuse, irresponsible sex, medical noncompliance, getting fired, drug abuse, spending one's life savings, not having measurable dignity, do-we-Baker-act-our-suicidal-spouse (probably not, they'll divorce you), alcohol abuse, attempting suicide, caffeine abuse, disappointing your parents, self-harm, disappointing your children, imaginary space aliens, imaginary conspiracies, being Jesus, drug abuse, growing up with child abuse, seeing things that don't exist, prescription drug abuse, regular drug abuse, jumping off buildings, jumping out of moving vehicles, drugs, public embarrassment, parkour, parkour during business meetings, do people really need to wear shirts, porn, heroin, meth, PCP, PHP, drugs, becoming homeless, being disoriented in marriage, writing production code in Perl, cocaine, John McAfee, and cocaine are probably common topics for many bipolar people. They may not have good relationships with these things, but they've probably thought about most of them. **In general, I'm a lot more worried about offending normal people than I am about normal people offending me,** and I suspect that's true for many types of neurological disorders, particularly those involving mania.

...so if I tell you I have bipolar, the purpose isn't to say "and you need to be sensitive about it" or "you need to accommodate me". The purpose is to (1) tell you something about my life, and (2) enable code-switching so we can negotiate logistics if I malfunction, which is now thankfully rare. Code switching is a two-way street: it also means you can talk to me about pretty much any amount of hard life situations or mental issues on your end and I'll listen because I've been there. It's an option, not an obligation, and hopefully it introduces new opportunities to solve problems that polite society isn't equipped to.
